 CSMS # 66146676 - INTERIM GUIDANCE: Retroactive Implementation of the United States-Japan Agreement CSMS # 66146676 - INTERIM GUIDANCE: Retroactive Implementation of the United States-Japan Agreement U.S. Customs and Border Protection sent this bulletin at 09/05/2025 07:53 PM EDT Cargo Systems Messaging Service CSMS # 66146676 - INTERIM GUIDANCE: Retroactive Implementation of the United States-Japan Agreement The Executive Order (EO) “ Implementing The United States–Japan Agreement ” signed on September 4, 2025, was issued pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act. This EO sets a baseline 15 percent ad valorem duty on nearly all imported products of Japan, alongside separate sector-specific treatment for automobiles and automobile parts; aerospace products; generic pharmaceuticals; and natural resources that are not naturally available or produced in the United States. The purpose of this message is to provide guidance on the retroactive clause of the EO, as specified in subsection 2(d). Subsection 2(d) of the EO states, “The tariffs set forth in subsection (a) of this section shall apply retroactively to products of Japan entered for consumption or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on August 7, 2025. Any refunds shall be processed pursuant to applicable laws and [U.S. Customs and Border Protection’s (CBP’s)] standard procedures for such refunds.” Pursuant to this retroactive provision, the trade community is not to file a Post Summary Correction or protest until CBP issues instructions on how those requests for refunds should be submitted. CBP will provide additional guidance to the trade community through CSMS messages as appropriate. If you encounter any errors in filing an entry summary, contact your CBP client representative or the ACE Help Desk. Questions regarding this message should be directed to Trade Remedy at traderemedy@cbp.dhs.gov . Related Message: 65829726 Update your subscriptions, modify your password or e-mail address, or stop subscriptions at any time on your Subscriber Preferences Page . You will need to use your e-mail address to log in. If you have questions or problems with the subscription service, please contact subscriberhelp.govdelivery.com . This service is provided to you at no charge by U.S. Customs and Border Protection . Privacy Policy | GovDelivery is providing this information on behalf of U.S. Department of Homeland Security, and may not use the information for any other purposes. Powered by Privacy Policy | Cookie Statement | Help 
